README.md, before:

# 💾 HAProxy with Keepalived Container

[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Container-white?style=flat&logo=docker&logoColor=white&logoSize=auto&labelColor=black)](https://docker.com/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Alpine-V3.21-white?style=flat&logo=alpinelinux&logoColor=white&logoSize=auto&labelColor=black)](https://www.alpinelinux.org/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HAProxy-V3.0.7-white?style=flat&logoColor=white&labelColor=black)](https://www.haproxy.org/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/KeepAliveD-V2.3.1-white?style=flat&logoColor=white&labelColor=black)](https://keepalived.org/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPL-V3-white?style=flat&logo=gnu&logoColor=white&logoSize=auto&labelColor=black)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html/)

A robust, selfhost-ready Docker container combining HAProxy load balancing with Keepalived for high availability. This solution provides automatic failover capabilities and efficient load distribution for your services.

## ✨ Features

- **High Availability**: Automatic failover using Keepalived VRRP
- **Load Balancing**: Advanced load balancing with HAProxy
- **Health Checks**: Automated service health monitoring
- **Easy Configuration**: Simple environment variable configuration
- **Alpine-based**: Lightweight and secure base image
- **Fixed Scale**: 2 load balacing/failover deployments, serving 2 backend servers
- **HAProxy stats**: Near real-time feed of the proxied services

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Pull the image
docker pull peterweissdk/haproxy-keepalived

# Run with custom configuration
docker run -d \
  --name haproxy-keepalived \
  --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
  --cap-add=NET_BROADCAST \
  --cap-add=NET_RAW \
  --net=host \
  --env-file=.env \
  peterweissdk/haproxy-keepalived
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

#### System Configuration

| Variable | Description | Example |

- `TZ`: System Timezone - Europe/Berlin

#### Keepalived Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |

- `VRRP_INSTANCE`: VRRP instance name - VI_1
- `INTERFACE`: Network interface - eth0
- `STATE`: Node state (MASTER/BACKUP) - MASTER
- `PRIORITY`: Node priority (1-255) - 100
- `ROUTER_ID`: Unique router ID - 50
- `VIRTUAL_IPS`: Virtual IP address - 192.168.1.100/24
- `UNICAST_SRC_IP`: Source IP for unicast - 192.168.1.11
- `UNICAST_PEERS`: Peer IP address - 192.168.1.12

#### HAProxy Default Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |
- `PROTOCOL_DEFAULT`: Default protocol - tcp
- `TIMEOUT_CLIENT_DEFAULT`: Client timeout (seconds) - 10
- `TIMEOUT_CONNECT_DEFAULT`: Timeout, connect to a backend server (seconds) - 5
- `TIMEOUT_SERVER_DEFAULT`: Server timeout (seconds) - 10


#### HAProxy Frontend Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |

- `NAME_FRONTEND`: Frontend name - ha-frontend
- `PORT_FRONTEND`: Listen port - 5001
- `PROTOCOL_FRONTEND`: Frontend protocol - tcp
- `OPTION_FRONTEND`: Frontend options - tcplog
- `DEFAULT_BACKEND`: Default backend name - ha-backend

#### HAProxy Backend Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |
- `NAME_BACKEND`: Backend name - ha-backend
- `PROTOCOL_BACKEND`: Backend protocol - tcp
- `OPTION_BACKEND`: Backend options - tcp-check
- `BALANCE_BACKEND`: Server scheduling - roundrubin

#### Backend Servers

| Variable | Description | Example |
- `NAME_SERVER1`: Backend name - backend-server1
- `IP_SERVER1`: Server IP address - 192.168.1.21
- `PORT_SERVER1`: Listen port - 6001
- `NAME_SERVER2`: Backend name - backend-server2
- `IP_SERVER2`: Server IP address - 192.168.1.22
- `PORT_SERVER2`: Listen port - 6002

## 🏗️ Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/peterweissdk/haproxy-keepalived.git

# Build the image
cd haproxy-keepalived
docker build -t haproxy-keepalived .
```

## 📝 Directory Structure

```bash
.
├── conf/
│   ├── haproxy/
│   │   └── haproxy.cfg_tpl
│   ├── keepalived/
│   │   └── keepalived.conf_tpl
│   └── supervisor/
│       ├── haproxy.ini
│       └── keepalived.ini
├── .env
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-entrypoint.sh
├── supervisord.conf
├── healthcheck.sh
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

## 🔍 Health Check

The container includes built-in health checks for both HAProxy and Keepalived services. Monitor the status using:

```bash
docker inspect --format='{{json .State.ExitCode}}' <container_name>
```

View the Docker health check logs with the following command:

```bash
docker inspect --format='{{json .State.Health}}' <container_name>
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## 🆘 Support

If you encounter any issues or need support, please file an issue on the GitHub repository.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Added compose info to Quick start

README.md, after:

# 💾 HAProxy with Keepalived Container

[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Container-white?style=flat&logo=docker&logoColor=white&logoSize=auto&labelColor=black)](https://docker.com/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Alpine-V3.21-white?style=flat&logo=alpinelinux&logoColor=white&logoSize=auto&labelColor=black)](https://www.alpinelinux.org/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HAProxy-V3.0.7-white?style=flat&logoColor=white&labelColor=black)](https://www.haproxy.org/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/KeepAliveD-V2.3.1-white?style=flat&logoColor=white&labelColor=black)](https://keepalived.org/)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPL-V3-white?style=flat&logo=gnu&logoColor=white&logoSize=auto&labelColor=black)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html/)

A robust, selfhost-ready Docker container combining HAProxy load balancing with Keepalived for high availability. This solution provides automatic failover capabilities and efficient load distribution for your services.

## ✨ Features

- **High Availability**: Automatic failover using Keepalived VRRP
- **Load Balancing**: Advanced load balancing with HAProxy
- **Health Checks**: Automated service health monitoring
- **Easy Configuration**: Simple environment variable configuration
- **Alpine-based**: Lightweight and secure base image
- **Fixed Scale**: 2 load balacing/failover deployments, serving 2 backend servers
- **HAProxy stats**: Near real-time feed of the proxied services

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Pull the image
docker pull peterweissdk/haproxy-keepalived

# Run with custom configuration
docker run -d \
  --name haproxy-keepalived \
  --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
  --cap-add=NET_BROADCAST \
  --cap-add=NET_RAW \
  --net=host \
  --env-file=.env \
  peterweissdk/haproxy-keepalived

# Run the container using the provided Docker Compose and .env file
docker compose up -d
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

#### System Configuration

| Variable | Description | Example |

- `TZ`: System Timezone - Europe/Berlin

#### Keepalived Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |

- `VRRP_INSTANCE`: VRRP instance name - VI_1
- `INTERFACE`: Network interface - eth0
- `STATE`: Node state (MASTER/BACKUP) - MASTER
- `PRIORITY`: Node priority (1-255) - 100
- `ROUTER_ID`: Unique router ID - 50
- `VIRTUAL_IPS`: Virtual IP address - 192.168.1.100/24
- `UNICAST_SRC_IP`: Source IP for unicast - 192.168.1.11
- `UNICAST_PEERS`: Peer IP address - 192.168.1.12

#### HAProxy Default Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |
- `PROTOCOL_DEFAULT`: Default protocol - tcp
- `TIMEOUT_CLIENT_DEFAULT`: Client timeout (seconds) - 10
- `TIMEOUT_CONNECT_DEFAULT`: Timeout, connect to a backend server (seconds) - 5
- `TIMEOUT_SERVER_DEFAULT`: Server timeout (seconds) - 10


#### HAProxy Frontend Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |

- `NAME_FRONTEND`: Frontend name - ha-frontend
- `PORT_FRONTEND`: Listen port - 5001
- `PROTOCOL_FRONTEND`: Frontend protocol - tcp
- `OPTION_FRONTEND`: Frontend options - tcplog
- `DEFAULT_BACKEND`: Default backend name - ha-backend

#### HAProxy Backend Settings

| Variable | Description | Example |
- `NAME_BACKEND`: Backend name - ha-backend
- `PROTOCOL_BACKEND`: Backend protocol - tcp
- `OPTION_BACKEND`: Backend options - tcp-check
- `BALANCE_BACKEND`: Server scheduling - roundrubin

#### Backend Servers

| Variable | Description | Example |
- `NAME_SERVER1`: Backend name - backend-server1
- `IP_SERVER1`: Server IP address - 192.168.1.21
- `PORT_SERVER1`: Listen port - 6001
- `NAME_SERVER2`: Backend name - backend-server2
- `IP_SERVER2`: Server IP address - 192.168.1.22
- `PORT_SERVER2`: Listen port - 6002

## 🏗️ Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/peterweissdk/haproxy-keepalived.git

# Build the image
cd haproxy-keepalived
docker build -t haproxy-keepalived .
```

## 📝 Directory Structure

```bash
.
├── conf/
│   ├── haproxy/
│   │   └── haproxy.cfg_tpl
│   ├── keepalived/
│   │   └── keepalived.conf_tpl
│   └── supervisor/
│       ├── haproxy.ini
│       └── keepalived.ini
├── .env
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-entrypoint.sh
├── supervisord.conf
├── healthcheck.sh
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

## 🔍 Health Check

The container includes built-in health checks for both HAProxy and Keepalived services. Monitor the status using:

```bash
docker inspect --format='{{json .State.ExitCode}}' <container_name>
```

View the Docker health check logs with the following command:

```bash
docker inspect --format='{{json .State.Health}}' <container_name>
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## 🆘 Support

If you encounter any issues or need support, please file an issue on the GitHub repository.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
